[Music]
it was a Saturday afternoon in May and I
suddenly realized that the next day was
Mother's Day there hadn't gotten
anything for my mom so I started
thinking about what should I get my mom
for Mother's Day I thought well why
don't I make her an interactive Mother's
Day card using the scratch software that
I'd been developing with my research
group at the MIT Media Lab we developed
it so the people could easily create
their own interactive stories and games
and animations and then share their
creations with one another so I thought
this would be an opportunity to use
scratch to make an interactive card for
my mom before making my own Mother's Day
card I thought I would take a look at
the scratch website so over the last
several years kids around the world ages
8 and up have shared their projects and
I thought well I wonder if of those 3
million projects whether anyone else has
thought to put up Mother's Day cards so
in the search box I typed in Mother's
Day and I was surprised and delighted to
see a list of dozens and dozens of
Mother's Day cards that show up on the
scratch website many of them just in the
past 24 hours by procrastinators just
like myself so I started taking a look
at them I saw one of them that featured
a kitten
and her mom and wishing her mom happy
Mother's Day and the creator very
considerately offered a replay for her
mom another one was an interactive
project where when you move the mouse
over the letters of happy mom day it
reveals a special happy Mother's Day
slogan in this one the creator told a
narrative about how she had googled to
find out when Mother's Day was happening
and then once she found out when
Mother's Day was happening she delivered
a special Mother's Day greeting of how
much she loved her mom I really enjoyed
looking at these projects and
interacting with these projects in fact
I liked it so much that instead of
making my own project I sent my mom
links to about a dozen of these projects
and actually she reacted exactly the way
that I hoped that she would she would
affect me and she said I'm so proud to
have a son they created a software that
allowed these kids to make Mother's Day
cards for their mothers so my mom was
happy and that made me happy but
actually I was even happier for another
reason I was happy because these kids
were using scratch just in the way that
we'd hoped that they would that is they
created their interactive Mother's Day
cards you could see that they were
really becoming fluent with new
technologies you know what do I mean by
fluent I mean that they were able to
start expressing themselves and to start
expressing their ideas you know when you
become fluent with language it means you
can write an entry in your journal or
tell a joke to someone or write a letter
to a friend and it's similar with new
technologies you know by that by writing
by creating these interactive Mother's
Day cards these kids were showing that
they were really fluent with new
technologies now maybe you won't be so
surprised by this because you know a lot
of times people feel that young people
today can do all sorts of things with
technology we all of us have heard young
people refer to as digital
but actually I'm sort of skeptical about
this term I'm not so sure we should be
thinking of young people as digital
natives when you really look at how is
it that young people spend most of their
time using new technologies you often
see them in situations like this or like
this and there's no doubt that young
people are very comfortable and familiar
browsing and chatting and texting and
gaming that doesn't really make you
fluent so young people today have lots
of experience and lots of familiarity
with interacting with new technologies a
lot less so of creating with new
technologies and expressing themselves
with new technologies it's almost as if
they can read but not write with new
technologies and I'm really interested
saying how can you help young Phil
become fluent so they can write with new
technologies and that really means that
they need to be able to write their own
computer programs or code so
increasingly people are starting to
recognize the importance of learning to
code you know in recent years they've
been hundreds of new organizations and
websites that are helping young people
learn to code you look online you'll see
places like code Academy and events like
coderdojo and sites like girls who code
or black girls code he seems to
everybody is getting into the act
you know just at the beginning of this
year at the turn of the New Year New
York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg you've
made a New Year's resolution that he was
going to learn to code in 2012 a few
months later the country of Estonia
decided that all of its first graders
should learn to code and that triggered
a debate in UK about whether all the
children dare should learn to code now
for some of you when you hear about this
it might seem sort of strange about
everybody learning to code when many
people think of coding they think of it
as something the only a very narrow sub
community of
people are going to be doing and they
think of coding looking like this and in
fact if this is what coding is like it
will only be a narrow sub creative
people with special mathematical skills
and technological background they can
code the coding doesn't have to be like
this let me show you about what it's
like to code in scratch so in scratch to
code you just snap blocks together in
this case you take a move block snap it
into a stock and there's stacks of
blocks control the behaviors of the
different characters in your game or
your story in this case controlling the
big fish after you created your program
you can click on share and then share
your project with other people so they
can use the project and start working on
the project as well so of course making
a fish game isn't the only thing you can
do with scratch of the millions of
projects on the scratch website there's
everything from animated stories to
school science projects to anime soap
operas to virtual construction kits to
recreations of classic video games to
political opinion polls to trigonometry
tutorials to interactive artwork and yes
interactive Mother's Day cards so they
think they're served so many different
ways that people can express themselves
using this to be able to take their
ideas and share their ideas with the
world and it doesn't just stay on the
screen you can also code to interact
with the physical world around you
here's an example from Hong Kong where
some kids made a game and then built
their own physical interface device and
had a late sensor so the late sensor
detects the hole on the board so as they
moved the physical saw the late sensor
detects the hole and controls the
virtual saw on the screen and saws down
the tray we're going to continue to look
at new ways of bringing together the
physical world and the virtual world and
connecting to the world around us this
is an example from a new version of
scratch that we'll be releasing in the
next few months and we're looking again
to sort of build
push you in new directions here's an
example he uses the webcam and as I move
my hand
I can pop the balloons or I can move the
bug so it's a little bit like Microsoft
Kinect where you interact with gestures
in the world but instead of just playing
someone else's game you get to create
the games and if you see someone else's
game you can just say see inside and can
look at the stocks of blocks to control
it so there's a new block that says how
much video motion there is and then if
there's so much video motion it will
then tell the balloon to pop the same
way that this uses the camera to get
information into scratch you can also
use the microphone here's an example of
a project using the microphone so I'm
going to let all of you control this
game using your voices so maybe control
you
[Applause]
as kids are creating projects like this
they're learning to code but even more
importantly they're coding to learn
because as they learn to code it enables
them to learn many other things opens up
many new opportunities for learning
again is useful to make an analogy to
reading and writing when you learn to
read and write it opens up opportunities
for you to learn so many other things
when you learn to read you can then read
to learn as the same thing with coding
if you learn to code you can code to
learn now some of the things you can
learn are sort of obvious you learn more
about how computers work but that's just
where it starts when you learn to code
it opens up for you to learn many other
things let me show you an example
here's another project and I saw this
when I was visiting one of the computer
clubhouses these are after-school
learning centers that we helped start
that help young people from low-income
communities learn to express themselves
creatively with new technologies and
when I went to one of the club houses a
couple years ago I saw a 13 year old boy
who was using our scratch software to
create a game somewhat like this one and
he was very happy with his game and
proud of his game but also he wanted to
do more he wanted to keep score this was
a game where the big fish eats the
little fish but he wanted to keep score
so that each time the big fish eats a
little fish this score would go up and
it would keep track and he didn't know
how to do that so I showed him in a
scratch you can create something called
a variable I'll call it score and that
creates some new blocks for you and also
creates a little scoreboard to keep
track of the score
so each time I click on change score it
increments the score so I showed this to
the clubhouse member let's call him
Victor and Victor when he saw that this
block would let him increment the score
he knew exactly what to do he took the
block and he put it into the program
exactly where the big fish eats the
little fish so then each time the big
fish eats the little fish it will
increment the score and the score will
go up by one and it's in fact working
and he saw this and he was so excited he
reached his hand out to me and he said
thank you thank you thank you and what
went through my mind was how open is it
the teachers are thanked by their
students for teaching the variables it
doesn't happen in most classrooms but
that's because in most classrooms when
kids learned about variables they don't
know why they're learning it it's
nothing that really they can make use of
when you learn ideas like this in
scratch you can learn it in a way that's
really meaningful and motivating for you
you can understand the reason for vera
for learning variables and we see that
kids learn it more deeply and learn it
better Victor had I'm sure had been
taught about variables of schools but he
really didn't he wasn't paying attention
now he had a reason for learning
variables Sweeney learned through coding
and coding to learn that you're learning
it in meaningful context and that's the
best way of learning things so his kids
like Victor are creating projects like
this they're learning important concepts
like variables but that's just the start
as Victor worked on this project and
created the scripts he was also learning
about the process of design how to start
with a glimmer of an idea and turn it
into a fully fledged functioning project
you know like you see here so he was
learning many different two core
principles of design about how to
experiment with new ideas how to take
complex ideas and break them down into
simpler parts how to collaborate with
other people on your projects of how to
find and fix bugs when things go wrong
how to keep persistent and to persevere
in the face of frustrations when things
aren't working well now those are
important skills that aren't just
relevant for coding their relevance for
all sorts of different activities now
who knows that Victor is going to grow
up and become a programmer or
professional computer scientist it's
probably not so likely regardless of
what he does he'll be able to make use
of these design skills they learned
regardless of whether he grows up to be
a marketing manager or a mechanic or a
community organizer that these ideas are
useful for everybody again it's useful
to think about this analogy with
language when you become fluent with
reading and writing
you know it's it's not something that
you're doing just to become a
professional writer very few people will
become professional writers but it's
useful for everybody to learn how to
read and write again the same thing with
coding most people won't grow up to
become professional you know computer
scientists or programmers but those
skills of thinking creatively reasoning
systematically working collaboratively
skills you develop when you code and
scratch are things that people can use
no matter what they're doing in their
work lives and it's not just about your
work life Kona can also enable you to
you know express your ideas and feelings
in your personal life let me end with
just one more example so this is an
example it came from after I had sent
the Mother's Day cards to my mom she
decided that she wanted to learn scraps
so she made this project for my birthday
and sent me a happy birthday scratch
card now this project is not going to
win any prizes for design and you can
rest assured that my 83 year old mom is
not training to become a professional
programmer or a computer scientist but
working on this project enabled her to
make a connection to someone that she
cares about enabled her to keep on
learning new things and continue to
practice her creativity and developing
new ways of expressing herself so you
know as we take a look and we see that
Michael Bloomberg
learn into code all of the children of
Estonia learn to code even my mom has
learned to code don't you think it's
about time that you might be think about
learning to code if you're interested in
giving it a try I'd encourage you to go
to the scratch website it's
scratch.mit.edu and give a try at coding
thanks very much
[Applause]